Introduction

Creating disk partitions enables you to split your hard drive into multiple sections that act independently.
In Linux, users must structure storage devices (USB and hard drives) before using them. 
Partitioning is also useful when you are installing multiple operating systems on a single machine.

Option 1: Partition a Disk Using parted Command
	Follow the steps below to partition a disk in Linux by using the parted command.

Step 1: List Partitions
	Before making a partition, list available storage devices and partitions. This action helps identify the storage device you want to partition.
Run the following command with sudo to list storage devices and partitions: sudo parted -l

The terminal prints out available storage devices with information about:

1.Model – Model of the storage device.
2.Disk – Name and size of the disk.
3.Sector size – Logical and physical size of the memory. Not to be confused with available disk space.
4.Partition Table – Partition table type (msdos, gpt, aix, amiga, bsd, dvh, mac, pc98, sun, and loop).
5.Disk Flags – Partitions with information on size, type, file system, and flags.

Partitions types can be:

1.Primary – Holds the operating system files. Only four primary partitions can be created.
2.Extended – Special type of partition in which more than the four primary partitions can be created.
3.Logical – Partition that has been created inside of an extended partition.

Step 2: Open Storage Disk
	Open the storage disk that you intend to partition by running the following command:sudo parted /dev/sdb
Always specify the storage device. If you don’t specify a disk name, the disk is randomly selected. To change the disk to dev/sdb run:select /dev/sdb

Step 3: Make a Partition Table
	Create a partition table before partitioning the disk. 
A partition table is located at the start of a hard drive and it stores data about the size and location of each partition.
Partition table types are: aix, amiga, bsd, dvh, gpt, mac, ms-dos, pc98, sun, and loop.
The create a partition table, enter the following:
mklabel [partition_table_type]
For example, to create a gpt partition table, run the following command:
mklabel gpt
Type Yes to execute.

Step 4: Check Table
Run the print command to review the partition table. The output displays information about the storage device

Step 5: Create Partition
Let’s make a new 1854MB-partition using the ext4 file system. The assigned disk start shall be 1MB and the disk end is at 1855MB.
To create a new partition, enter the following:
mkpart primary ext4 1MB 1855MB
After that, run the print command to review information on the newly created partition. The information is displayed under the Disk Flags section:

To save your actions and quit, enter the quit command. Changes are saved automatically with this command.