A] Users in Linux :-
	Linux is a multi-user system, which means that more than one person can interact with the same system at the same time.
 As a system administrator, you have the responsibility to manage the system’s users and groups by creating and removing users and assign them to different groups .
	
1.useradd Command-

	Only root or users with sudo privileges can use the useradd command to create new user accounts.
When invoked, useradd creates a new user account according to the options specified on the command line and the default values set in the /etc/default/useradd file.

-to create a new user account, invoke the useradd command followed by the name of the user.
For example to create a new user named username you would run:

		$sudo useradd username

-to be able to log in as the newly created user, you need to set the user password. To do that run the passwd command followed by the username:

		$sudo passwd username

B] Groups in Linux :-
	n Linux, a group is a collection of users. The main purpose of the groups is to define a set of privileges like read, write, 
or execute permission for a given resource that can be shared among the users within the group.


There are two types of groups that a user can belong to:

Primary or login group – 
It is the group that is assigned to the files that are created by the user. Usually, the name of the primary group is the same as the name of the user.
 Each user must belong to exactly one primary group.

Secondary or supplementary group - 
It is used to grant certain privileges to a set of users. A user can be a member of zero or more secondary groups.

C] Basic commands:
1. whoami -
	To display the username of the current use.
2. su - 
	To switch user
3. useradd - 
	Add a user to the system.
4. userdel - 
	Delete a user account and related files.
5. groupadd - 
	Add a group to the system.
6. delgroup - 
	Remove a group from the system.
7. groupdel - 
	To delete group
8. usermod - 
	It modifies a user account.
9. usermod -aG admin - 
	To append user to the secondary group.
10. cat /etc/passwd - 
	To check addition of the user 
11. passwd -
	To assign the password to user  
12. id - 
	To get data about user and its group 
13. chage -  
	change user password expiry information.
14. sudo -
	run one or more commands as another user typically with superuser permissions.


